---
keywords: fastai
description: Following along lesson plan Units 17 and 18 while taking notes and doing the Hacks.
title: Unit 17 and 18 Notes and Hacks
toc: true 
badges: true
comments: true
layout: post
---

# Notes

## 3.17 Notes

### Vocabulary

- problem - a description of a task that may or may not be able to be solved through the use of an algorithm
- instance of a problem - includes specific input
- decision problem - a problem with a binary answer (yes or no)
- optimizing problem - a problem with the objective of finding the **BEST** solution amongst many possibilities to solve a problem
- algorithm efficienct - determined through formal or mathematical reasoning
- algorithm - a process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem-solving operations

### Algorithms

- Have 4 steps

### Categorizing run times

**Constant time:**
- always takes a fixed number of steps, no matter how large the input size increases.

**Linear time:**
- number of steps increases in direct proportion to the input size.

**Quadratic time:**
- steps increase in proportion to the input size squared.

**Epxponential time:**
- number of steps increases faster than a polynomial function of the input size.

**Polynomial:**
- any run time that does not increase faster than n^k which includes Constant time, Quadratic time, and other higher degree polynomials.

**Superpolynomial:**
- any run time that does increase faster than n^k which includes Exponential time and factorial time.

**Reasonable Time:**
- Algorithms with a polynomial efficiency or lower (constant, linear, square, cube, etc.)

**Unreasonable Time:**
- Algorithms with exponential or factorial efficiencies.

## 3.18 Notes

### Decidable problems

These are problems for which algorithms can be written to solve/produce a correct output for all possible inputs. They have simple yes or no answers, true or false, even or odd.

### Undecidable problems

These are problems for which no algorithms can be built that can provide a correct yes or no answer. Cannot be solved with any algorithm. 

# Hacks

#### Hack 1

**Please write a short 1-2 sentence explanation describing the difference between decidable and undecidable problems. Make sure to provide at least one example of each.**

Decidable problems can be used to solve simple yes or no problems. Examples of a decidable problem would be: 
- Is it raining?
- Is it sunny?
- Are you in school?

Undecidable problems don't provide a yes or no answer and can't be solved with an algorithm. These problems may be partially decidable but they will never be decidable. Examples of a undecidable problem would be: 
- God is omnipotent, so can God create a stone that he cannot lift?

#### Hack 2 

Which of the following is a 3 step algorithm?

A. 2 x 6 x 8
B. 4^5
C. (3 x 8)^2
D. None of the above
E. All of the above

C, is a three step algorithm because you first have to multiple 3 x 8 (24) and then multiply 24 times 24 (576).


