---
keywords: fastai
description: Following along lesson plan Unit 8 and 10 while taking notes and doing the Hacks.
title: Unit 8 and 10 Notes and Hacks
toc: true 
badges: true
comments: true
layout: post
---

# Notes

## 3.9 Video 1

### Dice game take aways

- small mistakes or changes can alter code greatly
- there is more than one way to achieve a result

### Conditional vs Boolean

How could this conditional scenario be replaced with a boolean scenario?

IF (isHoliday)
{
school⟵false
}
ELSE
{
IF(isWeekday)
{
school⟵true
}
ELSE
{
school⟵false
}
}

Can be written as: school⟵((NOT (isHoliday)) AND (isWeekday))

### Comparing Algorithms

- As long as both algorithms work despite looking differently they are the same.


## 3.9 Video 2

### Vocab

- Iteration: Repeating steps, or instructions over and over again. ( this could be also often called a loop )
- Selection: is a decision or question. At some point in an algorithm there may need to be a question because the algorithm has reached a step where one or more options are available.

### Flowchart + Psuedo code

A flowchart can also be written in Psuedo code. Same thing with how algorithms can be written differently but have the same result.

## 3.9 Video 3

### Vocab

- Algorithm: A process or set of rules to be followed in calculations or other problem solving operations, especially by a computer.

## 3.11 Notes

### Sequential Search

- follow an order by going down a order to find the number you're looking for 
- you have to compare each number you're searching for

### Binary Search

- takes the lowset index and highest index to find the middle value and starts there
- must order from ascending or descending order 
- can also be applied to strings as long as their ordered preferably alphabetically

# Hacks

### 1.

Boolean Statement: stayInside⟵((isCold) OR (isRaining))

Conditional:

- If (isCold) {
    - stayinside ⟵ true
- }
- ELSE
- {
    - If (isRaining) {
    - stayinside ⟵ true
    - }
- }

### 2. 

num 
randomNum()

### 3.

- REPEAT UNTIL **GoalReached**

- If CAN_MOVE **FORWARD**
    - MOVE_FORWARD
- ELSE
    - IF CAN_MOVE **RIGHT**
        -  ROTATE_RIGHT
        - MOVE_FORWARD

### 4. 

### 8.

Binary search is more efficient than sequential search because sequential search is time consuming as it takes up more time to run through every item in the list, where as Binary starts in the middle. 


