---
keywords: fastai
description: Following along lesson plan Unit 12 and 13 while taking notes and doing the Hacks.
title: Unit 12 and 13 Notes and Hacks
toc: true 
badges: true
comments: true
layout: post
---

# Notes

### Vocab

- A procedure is a named group of programming instructions that may have parameters and return values.
- Parameters are input values of a procedure.

### Notes on Procedures and Parameters

Procedures:
- a method or function
- should be descriptive

Parameters:
- interrupts an execution of code 

### Vocab 

- Modularity - the practice of breaking a complex program into smaller, independent parts or modules that can be used and reused in different parts of the program


### How to make procedures purposeful

- should have multiple functions
- Should be simple and get final result
- be conscice


### Vocab 

- Modularity - the practice of breaking a complex program into smaller, independent parts or modules that can be used and reused in different parts of the program

# Hacks

### 3.12 Pt 1.

### Skip Question 1

### 2. 

The answer is PROCEDURE calcAvgSpeed (distance, time) { DISPLAY (time/distnace)}.

### 3. 

James Hunter is looking through his classmate's program and sees a procedure called heightenEmotions: PROCEDURE heightenEmotions(myEmotion)

{ moreEnergy ← CONCAT(myEmotion, "!!!")

moreVolume ← UPPER(moreEnergy)

RETURN moreVolume }

That procedure manipulates strings using two built-in procedures, CONCAT for concatenating two strings together, and UPPER for converting a string to uppercase.

James Hunter then sees this line of code:

heightenEmotions("im mad")

After that line of code runs, will nothing be displayed?

True, because the procedure does not display due to their being no code telling the procedure to display.

### 4. 

Problem 3: Procedures with return values Bubz is writing a program to calculate the carbon footprint of his activities. The procedure calcFlightFootprint calculates the pounds of carbon dioxide produced per passenger in a flight that covers a given number of miles and seats a given number of passengers.
PROCEDURE calcFlightFootprint(numMiles, numPassengers) {

CO2_PER_MILE ← 53.29

carbonPerFlight ← numMiles * CO2_PER_MILE

carbonPerPassenger ← carbonPerFlight / numPassengers

RETURN carbonPerPassenger

}

Bubz wants to use that procedure to calculate the total footprint for his two upcoming flights: LA to NY: 2,451 miles and 118 passengers NY to London: 3,442 miles and 252 passengers

Which of these code snippets successfully calculates and stores her total footprint? Highlight 2 answers.

1. <mark>totalFootprint ← calcFlightFootprint(2451, 118) + calcFlightFootprint(3442, 252)</mark>

2. totalFootprint ← calcFlightFootprint(2451, 118 + 3442, 252)

3. <mark>totalFootprint ← calcFlightFootprint((2451, 118) + (3442, 252))</mark>

4. laNyCarbon ← calcFlightFootprint(2451, 118) nyLondonCarbon ← calcFlightFootprint(3442, 252) totalFootprint ← laNyCarbon + nyLondonCarbon

## 3.12 Pt. 2

### 1.

What is a?

A is 729 because c is 9 and b is 9*9 which is 81 and if a is b * c then 81 * 9 = 729.


## 3.13 Pt 1 and 2 

### 1. 

Create a procedure that is meant to replace the top running backs yards per game in one season if the current running back has more yards per game.

Given necesities: toprbyardspg(100), currentrbyards(1260), totalGames(12)

My Answer:

PROCEDURE replaceTopRb(toprbyardspg(100), currentrbyards(1260), totalGames(12)) {
    - If (currentRbYards(1260) > toprbyardspg(100)){
        - toprbyardspg <-- currentRbYards
    - }
}

### 2. 

- PROCEDURE getAplus(){
    - If (can_MoveForward):
        - Move_Forward
    - Else (can_MoveRight):
        - Rotate_Right
        - Move_Forward
    - If (can_MoveLeft);
        - Rotate_Left
        - Move_forward
- }

### 3. 

**Which Is the Correct Way to define the Name of a Procedure?**

B, because the name of the procedure should not be in all caps, but PROCEDURE should be in all caps. 

### 4. 

**Write A Procedure That gets the BeachBall To the Green Square**

- PROCEDURE getAplus(){
    - If (can_MoveForward):
        - Move_Forward
    - Else (can_MoveRight):
        - Rotate_Right
        - Move_Forward
    - If (can_MoveLeft);
        - Rotate_Left
        - Move_forward
- }

