---
keywords: fastai
description: Notes from the yale video.
title: "Focus and Habits Notes"
toc: true
branch: master
badges: true
comments: true
author: Naja Fonseca
categories: [markdown, jupyter]
nb_path: _notebooks/2022-09-20-Focus-and-Habits.ipynb
layout: notebook
---

<!--
#################################################
### THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! ###
#################################################
# file to edit: _notebooks/2022-09-20-Focus-and-Habits.ipynb
-->

<div class="container" id="notebook-container">
        
<div class="cell border-box-sizing text_cell rendered"><div class="inner_cell">
<div class="text_cell_render border-box-sizing rendered_html">
<h2 id="Video-Notes">Video Notes<a class="anchor-link" href="#Video-Notes"> </a></h2><ul>
<li>Students are too stressed to do things they enjoy</li>
<li>Studnets feel lonely</li>
<li>Over 40% of students experience above the average level of stress</li>
<li>1/3 of students feel too deppressed to function</li>
<li>Over 40% of students feel hopeless</li>
<li>60% of students feel overwhelming anxiety</li>
<li>Over 50% of students feel very, very lonely</li>
<li>Over 80% feel overwhelmed with all that they have to do</li>
<li>Knowledge without application means nothing</li>
<li>Our behaviors a ffect our happiness</li>
<li>Cognitive Bias = GI Joe Fallacy</li>
<li>Happier people spend more times with others</li>
<li>Interacting with others makes you happier</li>
<li>Spending more time alone makes you less happy</li>
<li>Writing down that makes you grateful everyday can increase happiness</li>
<li>Expressing your gratitude makes people happier</li>
<li>Healthy practices improve happiness</li>
<li>Sleep is very important</li>
<li>It's important to pay attention to what you're doing, ask yourself if you are in the present momenet</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="Important-Studies-and-Sciences">Important Studies and Sciences<a class="anchor-link" href="#Important-Studies-and-Sciences"> </a></h2><ul>
<li>The Study of Happy People</li>
<li>The Study of behavioral change</li>
<li>Science of Psychology</li>
</ul>
<h2 id="Top-10-Insights-from-The-Science-of-Psychology-and-the-Good-Life">Top 10 Insights from The Science of Psychology and the Good Life<a class="anchor-link" href="#Top-10-Insights-from-The-Science-of-Psychology-and-the-Good-Life"> </a></h2><ol>
<li>You do not have to be stuck in a state of well-being, you can always improve it</li>
<li>Things like where we live, what job we have, our salary,  etc. do not matter as much as we think</li>
<li>Taking control of your life may not bring you to happiness, but following the habits of happy people can improve your well-being</li>
<li>Recognizing that your mind is a liar and your intuition cannot be trusted when it comes to what happiness is</li>
<li>Spending time with others makes you happier</li>
<li>Helping others help us more than some people expect</li>
<li>Make time for gratitude every single day</li>
<li>Healthy practices more than we think</li>
<li>Notice all good things in your life</li>
<li>It's important to be wealthy but in time</li>
</ol>
<h2 id="Gratitude-Blog">Gratitude Blog<a class="anchor-link" href="#Gratitude-Blog"> </a></h2><h3 id="Gratefulness-on-Campus">Gratefulness on Campus<a class="anchor-link" href="#Gratefulness-on-Campus"> </a></h3><p>I'm very grateful for my very cool teacher Mr. Yeung. I totally would have dropped this class if it wasn't for the info I was gaining out of him. Haha, just kidding, I really like him as a brutally honest person and I enjoy eating lunch and having class with Mr. Yeung. I also am grateful that we have common interests, such as cross country that makes it easier to talk to Mr. Yeung without being scared of him.</p>
<h2 id="Goals">Goals<a class="anchor-link" href="#Goals"> </a></h2><ol>
<li>My first goal is to be a better runner.</li>
<li>My second goal is to make it through this class.</li>
<li>My third goal is to become a happier person.</li>
<li>My fourth goal is to make a better connection with my brother.</li>
<li>My fifth goal is to do good in school.</li>
</ol>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
 

