---
keywords: fastai
description: Following along Collegeboard lessons 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5, and 5.6
title: Lesson Notes - 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4, 5.5 + 5.6
toc: true 
badges: true
comments: true
layout: post
---

# 5.1 Notes - Beneficial and Harmful Effects

## Highlights and Questions from College board

### Questions:

- UAVs/Drones are used for many different things (search & rescue, aerial photography, + hobbies). However, collegeboard wants to know what do people think about drones? 
- Automated telephone trees helped save employers money and reduce hold time for customers. College board wants to know: What innovations would you like to see in a phone tree? Will this phone tree transfer you to relevant department during office hours? Will it always enable you the opportunity for human response?

### Highlights

Affects of OpenAI + ChatGPT:
- Affects google, some people wonder if ChatGPT is going to replace google
- ChatGPT is able to assist with coding suggestions and debugging (practically a github copilot)
- Changes the revenue of Google because of a shift from the use of Google to ChatGPT (platform shift)
- Dopamine affects many people, it also is shown to be produced when people play video games or use social media.
    - Anthony Rosner lost two years of his life due to video games
    - He was a top player in World of Warcraft (an online game), he played for 18 hours each day for 2 years and lost his real life to this game. He neglected his schoolwork, relationships, health, + his hygiene. 
    - However, Rosner eventually pulled away from the reality world and started doing more productive things such as: joining a gym, DJing at his college, + becoming more socially active. 
    - Rosner created his own film documentary called IRL (In Real Life) which highlights how he broke his gaming habit.

## Big Post Reflection

#### Three Beneficial and Harmful Effects of Computing

**Beneficial:**

1. A beneficial effect of using computers is the free access to knowledge. 
2. A beneficial effect of using computers is that you can communicate worldwide for work, friends, and/or family.
3. A beneficial effect of using computers is that you can back up photos and store data. 

**Harmful:**

1. A harmful effect of using computers is you could get your data stolen or you could get hacked.
2. A harmful effect of using computers is that you could get addicted to video games or sucked into online media
3. A harmful effect of using computers is you could get groomed by online predators.

#### Dopamine Issues

**Real?**

I believe that dopamine is real and that it does cause many issues, especially in those who use social media. Social media sucks in a lot of people to want more and more. Everytime someone gets ading on their phone, they feel that dopamine rush and excitement that they've been notified. For example, likes on posts from social media make many people feel happy or appreciated.

**Parent Conspiracy?**

Not a parent conspiracy, dopamine has been scientifically proven and their are stories such as Anthony Rosner's that show the effects of dopamine.

**Dopamine in My Life**

I feel like I got a lot of dopamine from playing video games and watching TikTok, both which affected my school performance. I would spend 2 hours every night playing video games, which is 10 hours a week. I started playing less and less because I realized how unhealthy this habit was and how much it affected me. I eventually stopped gaming completely and have a healthier school/life balance. With TikTok, I would get so sucked in I would watch it for hours and time would fly by in well... no time. I would be watching at 5pm and then it would be 7pm. So, I deleted TikTok to also benefit my school/life balance. From here I developed healthier habits to help me balance school when I needed a break. I started reading in between hours I would do my homework. I would practice drawing or copy sketches in my notebook as well. These things helped me reduce the addiction of Dopamine, and benefit my daily life. 

# 5.2 Notes

### Digital Divide

Digital divide is the divide between to those who can access computers and those who cannot.

- Poorer/rural areas in America may not have less or little access to technology
- Some countries may have different or restricted access 

### Things that contribute to the Digital Divide

- older computers or older technology in general may not have access to the latest updates
- regional distinction
- school blocked sites and restrictions

## Blog Post Reflection

### How does someone empower themself in a digital world?

People can empower themself in a digital world by being familiar with simple commands that they can use. For example, when a teacher is going too fast on a lesson and I'm able to access the lesson on my computer I can use command shift + 3 to take a quick screenshot of what the teacher is talking about or going over. Another example, in comp sci when I need to record a video I can use command shift + 5 to screen record. 

### How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered? Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.

Someone who is empowered in knowledge can help someone that is not empowered by helping students who may be less knowledgable then others. Something I could do at DNHS is tutoring students who are in grades below me or taking classes I've previously taken.

### Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?

I don't think paper is blcking digital empowerment, but I think red tape could be. If there are steps that you have to complete before doing something it could be lengthening the digital process and slowing down digital empowerment. At Del Norte, there are restrictions that block 

# 5.3 Summary

I thought each of the excercises were really fun and I enjoyed talking with my classmates and switching talking partners. I liked the answers to a lot of the questions they were innovative and eye opening. When Colin mentioned that Alexa and Siri may have been female voices because women have been seen as the secretary or help it was an impressive conclusion. I also liked hearing about the difference between age groups of Facebook and TikTok. We discussed algorithms that influence ourdecisions like ads and how they push us things the algorithm thinks we would like so we buy it. I also think HP computers are somewhat wrong (but not racist), because I'm sure that they had to do thorough testing in order to see if the face tracking worked. My conclusion is perhaps they did test it on someone who had darker skintone but did not care to write or say that the face tracking would not work on those of darker skin tones. As it would be well, weird.

# 5.4 Hacks 

### CompSci has 150 ish principles students. Describe a crowdsource idea and how you might initiate it in our environment?

A crowdsource idea that would initiate our environment is a quiz or quick question.

### What about Del Norte crowdsourcing? Could your project be better with crowdsourcing?

My project would be better with crowdsourcing because I can ask people what their favorite places are in San Diego County and when they answer I can add those places to the API in my travel project. This would help people go to places that they will like/enjoy.

### What kind of data could you capture at N@tM to make the evening interesting? Perhaps use this data to impress Teachers during finals week.

I could capture data such as how many students attend the event to express the joy of coming to N@tM. 

# 5.5

1. When you create a GitHub repository it requests a license type. Review the license types in relationship to this Tech Talk and make some notes in your personal blog.

MIT License notes:

- can be used to license your code and others can use your code but the license will make sure that the user has to credit the owner of the code.
- it uses open source and closed source, open source means everyone have access. closed source says that only people who can access the code can use it.

2. In your blog, summarize the discussions and personal analysis on Software Licenses/Options, Digital Rights, and other Legal and Ethical thoughts from this College Board topic.


3. Make a license for your personal (blog) and Team repositories for the CPT project. Be sure to have a license for both Team GitHub repositories (frontend/backend). Document license(s) you picked and why. FYI, frontend, since it is built on GitHub pages may come with a license and restrictions. Document in blog how team made license choice and process of update.

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2023 Naja Fonseca

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


# 5.6

1. Describe PII you have seen on project in CompSci Principles.
I have seen PII when students link their github to the top of their website which can show who the contributors are. 

2. What are your feelings about PII and your personal exposure?
I think PII is useful for online things such as LinkedInn and if you're resume is online and you're looking for a job. I personally have played video games and think that PII can also be dangerous. There are people who don't care too much about their PII and will tell you things you shouldn't probably know about them. Otherwise, I keep my PII private online.

3. Describe good and bad passwords? What is another step that is used to assist in authentication.
Good:
- contain at least 8 characters
- contain more than upper and lowercase words such as numbers and symbols
- aren't repeated from previous passwords

Bad:
- short like 3 characters
- contain only letters 
- are repeated from previous passwords multiple times

4. Try to describe Symmetric and Asymmetric encryption.

Symmetric:
a type of encryption where only one key (a secret key) is used to both encrypt and decrypt electronic data, probably less secure than asymmetric encryption.

Asymmetric:
a process that uses a pair of related keys: one public key and one private key more secure than symmetric encryption.

5. Provide an example of encryption we used in AWS deployment.
an example that we used was in the PBL model user databse, we used password hashing to encrypt passwords and make them more secure.

6. Describe a phishing scheme you have learned about the hard way. Describe some other phishing techniques.
I have never been "phished." Phishing techniques include scam links and virus/malware.